.TH SPECDD 1 "May 2026" "specdd 1.1.0" "SpecDD CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
specdd \- command-line tool for SpecDD workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B specdd
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B specdd init
.RI [ path ]
.RB [ --version
.IR version ]
.br
.B specdd update
.RB [ --version
.IR version ]
.br
.B specdd check-update
.br
.B specdd agentskills deploy
.RI [ path ]
.RB [ --user ]
.RB [ --version
.IR version ]
.br
.B specdd inspect
.RI [ path ]
.RB [ --section
.IR name ]
.RB [ --sections
.IR names ]
.RB [ --format
.IR format ]
.br
.B specdd resolve
.I target
.RB [ --root
.IR path ]
.RB [ --section
.IR name ]
.RB [ --sections
.IR names ]
.RB [ --depth
.IR depth ]
.RB [ --format
.IR format ]
.br
.B specdd lint
.RI [ path ]
.RB [ --format
.IR format ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B specdd
is a command-line tool for working with SpecDD framework-enabled
projects. It initializes SpecDD project files, updates existing SpecDD
installations, checks for framework updates, deploys SpecDD Agent Skills,
and inspects, resolves, or lints local
.B .sdd
specification files.
.PP
SpecDD projects are driven by source-adjacent
.B .sdd
spec files.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init [path]
Initialize SpecDD in the current directory or in
.IR path .
If the target directory does not exist,
.B init
creates it. SpecDD is added only when
.B .specdd/bootstrap.md
is not already present.
.TP
.B update
Update an existing SpecDD project. The current directory must contain
.B .specdd/bootstrap.md .
When using the default latest release,
.B update
compares the local bootstrap
.B Version
front matter with the latest release and does nothing when the local
version is already current or newer.
.TP
.B check-update
Print the local SpecDD version, if any, and the latest available release
version.
.TP
.B agentskills deploy [path]
Deploy SpecDD Agent Skills into a project directory. By default the
current directory is used. Project installs write to
.BR <project>/.agents/skills .
Only valid
.B specdd-*
skill directories that contain
.B SKILL.md
are installed.
.TP
.B inspect [path]
Discover
.B .sdd
files under a directory and print selected sections in a tree-shaped
report. If
.I path
is omitted, the current directory is inspected.
.TP
.B resolve target
Resolve specs relevant to
.IR target ,
where
.I target
is a directory or a
.B .sdd
file. Resolution always includes vertical directory context from the
target up to the root, and then expands soft links from the target and
nearby parent context specs.
.TP
.B lint [path]
Lint
.B .sdd
files under a directory. If
.I path
is omitted, the current directory is linted. Text output prints only
files with diagnostics.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show command help.
.TP
.BI --version " version"
Use a specific SpecDD release version for commands that download SpecDD
release assets. Versions use dotted numeric values such as
.B 1.2
or
.BR 1.2.3 ,
without a leading
.BR v .
.SH AGENT SKILLS OPTIONS
.TP
.B --user
Install Agent Skills into the current user's Agent Skills directory,
.BR ~/.agents/skills .
This option cannot be combined with a project target path.
.TP
.BI --version " version"
Install a specific Agent Skills release tag.
.SH INSPECT OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --section " name"
Include a section by name. May be repeated.
.TP
.BI --sections " names"
Include comma-separated section names, for example
.BR Purpose,Must,Tasks .
.TP
.BI --format " format"
Set output format. Supported values are
.BR text ,
.BR json ,
and
.BR json-extended .
The default is
.BR text .
Compact JSON omits parser metadata. Extended JSON includes the full
internal service result.
.SH RESOLVE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --root " path"
Set the resolution root directory. Relative
.B /
paths in specs are resolved from this root. The default is the current
directory.
.TP
.BI --section " name"
Include a section by name. May be repeated.
.TP
.BI --sections " names"
Include comma-separated section names.
.TP
.BI --depth " depth"
Control how far
.B resolve
expands soft links. The default is
.BR 2 .
Use
.B 0
for vertical context only,
.B 1
for direct links from the target spec only,
.B 2
for target links plus immediate parent context links,
.B 3
to also expand the next parent context level, or
.B all
to recursively follow all reachable links with cycle protection.
.TP
.BI --format " format"
Set output format. Supported values are
.BR text ,
.BR json ,
and
.BR json-extended .
The default is
.BR text .
.SH LINT OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --format " format"
Set output format. Supported values are
.BR text
and
.BR json .
The default is
.BR text .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SPECDD_LOG_LEVEL
Set CLI log verbosity. Supported values are
.BR error ,
.BR warning ,
.BR warn ,
.BR log ,
.BR info ,
and
.BR debug .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The command completed successfully. For
.BR check-update ,
exit status
.B 0
also means no update is needed.
.TP
.B 1
The command completed with a user-visible non-success result, such as
an available update from
.B check-update
or lint errors from
.BR lint .
.TP
.B >1
The command failed because of invalid input, missing prerequisites,
download or verification failure, filesystem failure, or another
unexpected error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .specdd/bootstrap.md
Project bootstrap file used to identify local SpecDD framework version
and project rules.
.TP
.B .specdd/bootstrap.local.md
Optional local operator overrides. This file is ignored by the
generated
.BR .specdd/.gitignore .
.TP
.B .agents/skills
Project Agent Skills installation directory.
.TP
.B ~/.agents/skills
User Agent Skills installation directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize the current directory:
.B specdd init
.TP
Update an existing project:
.B specdd update
.TP
Check whether a newer framework release exists:
.B specdd check-update
.TP
Deploy project Agent Skills:
.B specdd agentskills deploy path/to/project
.TP
Deploy user Agent Skills:
.B specdd agentskills deploy --user
.TP
Inspect selected sections:
.B specdd inspect path/to/project --sections Purpose,Must,Tasks
.TP
Resolve relevant specs with default depth:
.B specdd resolve path/to/project/src/feature --root path/to/project
.TP
Resolve only vertical context:
.B specdd resolve --depth 0 path/to/project/src/feature
.TP
Resolve recursively:
.B specdd resolve --depth all --root path/to/project path/to/project/src/feature
.TP
Lint specs as JSON:
.B specdd lint path/to/project --format json
.SH SEE ALSO
SpecDD documentation:
.UR https://specdd.ai
.UE
.br
SpecDD CLI project:
.UR https://github.com/specdd/cli
.UE
